<i class="fa fa-cubes"></i> Community Edition (CE)

appserver.io 1.0.0 CE aka **Iron Horse**, is the first PHP [Application Server](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_server), fully written in PHP. appserver.io is the first player in the market segment of infrastructure solutions, previously covered only by non PHP language tools. The LAMP stack, together with countless 3rd party tools, has, by now, been the backbone of millions of low and midrange web applications, e-commerce solutions and websites. With the growing market demand for making PHP ready for real enterprise solutions, the LAMP stack reaches its limits. Especially areas like maintainability and scalability are, compared to common solutions, bottlenecks the PHP ecosystem is responsible for finding working solutions for.

appserver.io exactly focuses that topics and enters the stage as a fully featured infrastructure solution that replaces the **A** and pulls the 3rd party tools out of the LAMP stack. Based on a fast and rock solid HTTP/1.1 compliant web server as the first layer, appserver.io provides a [Persistence-Container](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/persistence-container.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>) and a [Servlet-Engine](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/servlet-engine.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>) as second. Finally the last layer is built by a [Message-Queue](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/message-queue.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>) and a [Timer-Service](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/timer-service.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>) which make heavy use of the Persistence-Container functionality. These, completely stateful, services are bundled with functionality like [AOP](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/aop.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>), [DI](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/dependency-injection.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>), [Design by Contract](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/design-by-contract.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>) and [Annotations](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/annotations.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>), which massively speed up application development, maintainability and reusability.

> appserver.io CE is your entry into the new and amazing world of multithreading enabled PHP. If you are a passionate PHP developer, it offers you not yet known opportunities to build rapidly build enterprise-grade web applications. Feel free to modify - or even <a href="{{ site.github_repository }}"><i class="fa fa-github"></i> contribute</a> to - one of the most innovative PHP projects of the last years!

Below, you can read more about the main services provided by the CE.
