---
layout: post
title:  1.1.0 aka "Iron Knight" released
date:   2015-11-11 00:00:00
author: wagnert
version: 1.1.0
categories: [release]
---

Round about 9 month after we've released 1.0.0 and 10.000+ downloads later, we finally finished version 1.1.0 containing many intersting and new features.

Beside many bugfixes and refactoring, "Iron Knight" comes with some new and helpful features. The following list gives you a short overview about what features version 1.1.0 come with:

* PHP 5.6.x
* Runlevel
* Management Console (Terminal) - Experimental
* CRON
* Multiple SSL Certificates per IP
* Proxy Modul
* AutoIndex Modul
* Headers Modul
* Application Configuration
* Doctrine Integration (@PersistenceUnit annotation)
* Lifecycle Callbacks for SFSB (@PostDetach, @PreAttach)

## Plattform

As plattform, we define the PHP runtime version and the main daemon, that starts all other services, servers and finally the applications. The following updates and features are part of 1.1.0 aka the "Iron Knight" plattform.

### PHP 5.6.x

Version 1.1.x is, as defined in [issue #683](https://github.com/appserver-io/appserver/issues/683), based on PHP 5.6.x and contains many security patches and performance improvents as well as a whole bunch of new functionaliy.

### Runlevels

The latest version of appserver.io also comes with completely refactored boostrap process, separated in seven modes of operation, called [Runlevels](https://github.com/appserver-io/appserver/issues/761).

ID | Name               | Description
---|--------------------|-----------------------------------------
 0 | Shutdown           | Stop the Application Server
 1 | Administration     | Start the Base System
 2 | Daemon             | Start the Core Daemons
 3 | Networking         | Start the Containers
 4 | Secure             | Secure the Application Server
 5 | Full               | Initialise and Start the Applications
 6 | Restart            | Restart the Application Server

When appserver.io starts, for examle by invoking `service appserver start` on a Linux system's console, Runlevel `5` will be executed. Therefore, all previous Runlevles are synchronously executed whereas

* runlevel 1 loads the system configuration and start's the base system
* runlevel 2 start's the core daemons e. g. the telnet console
* runlevel 3 start's containers and the services e. g. the HTTP(S) server
* runlevel 4 secures the servers by switching to the configured group and user
* runlevel 5 finally bootstraps and start's the deployed applications

The boostrap process now uses events to allow developers writing their own functionality, which usually will be listeners, that will be invoked while executing the available runlevels. These events can simply be configured by the `etc/appserver/conf.d/bootstrap.xml` file. Additionally there are separate configuration files, each one for the watcher daemon `etc/appserver/conf.d/boostrap-watcher.xml` and the setup command `etc/appserver/conf.d/bootstrap-command.xml`.

### Management Console (Experimental)

You may ask yourself, how you can switch between the runlevels. The OS specific init scripts allows you to start/stop or restart appserver.io only. The Managment Console enables developers or admins to login to a instance and to execute commands, like to switch between the runlevels.

This feature has been planned in issue [#763](https://github.com/appserver-io/appserver/issues/763) and specifies a Management Console that allows to execute commands on a internal commandline.

The Management Console is actually experimental and in a pre-alpha stage. So switching between the runlevels using the `init` command is, beside the `exit` command, the only functionality that works in version 1.1.0. Basically, the Management Console supports different protocols, whereas only the Telnet based implementation is working now, but we've plans to integrate a SSH console in one of the next releases and extend the functionality e. g. with the following commands

* `su`: Switching the user
* `top`: Overview all threads with required memory and CPU time
* `status`: Textual overview about the server status
* `service`: Start and stop container, servers and applications

The Management Console can be configured in the main configuration file `etc/appserver/appserver.xml`. By default the Telnet based implementation is activated by default

```xml
...
<consoles>
    <console
        name="telnet"
        type="AppserverIo\Appserver\Core\Consoles\Telnet"
        factory="AppserverIo\Appserver\Core\Consoles\TelnetFactory">
        <params>
            <param name="address" type="string">127.0.0.1</param>
            <param name="port" type="integer">9023</param>
        </params>
    </console>
</consoles>
...
```
and listens to local port `9023`. This can be deactivated or customized, as the Management Console is actually for testing purposes only.

### CRON

The new [CRON](https://github.com/appserver-io/appserver/pull/838) functionality can replace the system CRON in many cases. It allows admins to configure CRON jobs globally or developers to deliver their CRON job configuration with their application. The global CRON job configuration can be done in `etc/appserver/conf.d/cron.xml`, whereas the configuration file of an application has to be located in `META-INF/cron.xml`.

For example, a simple CRON configuration that writes the actual PHP version to the `var/log/php_errors.log` file can look like this

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<cron xmlns="http://www.appserver.io/appserver">
    <jobs>
        <job name="render-php-version">
            <schedule>0 * * * * *</schedule>
            <execute directory="/opt/appserver" script="bin/php">
                <args>
                    <arg type="string">-v</arg>
                </args>
            </execute>
        </job>
    </jobs>
</cron>
```

You can find more informations about CRON job configuration in our [documentation](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/1.1/configuration.html#cron" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>).

## Webserver

Beside the improvements of the plattform, also the webserver make some major steps forward to a fully featured HTTP 1.1 compliant webserver. 

### Multiple SSL Certificates per IP

As PHP 5.6.x allows to bind Multiple SSL Certificates per IP. Up with version 1.1.x appserver.io also enables this feature by a simple configuration option, e. g. by simply adding the following lines to a server configuration

```xml
...
<certificates>
    <certificate domain="appserver.dev" certPath="etc/appserver/appserver.pem" />
    <certificate domain="*.appserver.dev" certPath="etc/appserver/appserver-wildcard.pem" />
</certificates>
...
```
For more details about SSL configuration, have a look at our [documentation](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/1.1/configuration.html#server-configuration" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>).

### Proxy Modul

The [Proxy Module](https://github.com/appserver-io/appserver/issues/200) provides full proxy functionality by supporting user defined logic in upstream types which can be used for implementing custom behaviour (e. g. load-balancing, round-roubin etc.).

The proxy configuration consists of two parts. The first is part of the container configuration. So, if you want to proxy a local Apache instance you have to configure the upstream server like

```xml
...
<upstreams>
    <upstream name="exampleBackend" type="\AppserverIo\WebServer\Upstreams\DefaultUpstream">
        <servers xmlns="">
            <server name="local-apache" type="\AppserverIo\WebServer\Upstreams\Servers\DefaultServer">
                <params xmlns="http://www.appserver.io/appserver">
                    <param name="address" type="string">127.0.0.1</param>
                    <param name="port" type="integer">80</param>
                    <param name="weight" type="integer">1</param>
                    <param name="maxFails" type="integer">10</param>
                    <param name="failTimeout" type="integer">30</param>
                    <param name="maxConns" type="integer">64</param>
                    <param name="backup" type="boolean">false</param>
                    <param name="down" type="boolean">false</param>
                    <param name="resolve" type="boolean">false</param>
                </params>
            </server>
    </upstream>
</upstreams>
...
```

The second is part of the server configuration, that uses the configured upstream server. So if your application has a folder `test` and the requests should be handled by the configured Apache instance we configured before, you can simply add a locaction with a file handler that forwards the requests like this 

```xml
...
<locations>
    <location condition="\/test\/.*">
        <fileHandlers>
            <fileHandler name="proxy" extension=".*">
                <params>
                    <param name="transport" type="string">tcp</param>
                    <param name="upstream" type="string">exampleBackend</param>
                </params>
            </fileHandler>
        </fileHandlers>
    </location>
</locations>
...
```

You can find more informations about the Proxy Module configuration in our [documentation](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/1.1/webserver.html#proxy" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>).

### Auto Index Modul

The Auto Index Module, defined with issue [700](https://github.com/appserver-io/appserver/issues/700), enables auto generation of directory index on server, virtual host level or location level. The configuration is pretty simple, as only one parameter needs to be set to `true`. If, for example, the auto index functionality has to be enabled for a complete server, simply set the parameter `autoIndex` it in the `etc/appserver/appserver.xml` file to `true`. This could look like

```xml
...
<server
        name="http"
         ...>
    <params>
        ...
        <param name="autoIndex" type="boolean">true</param>
        <param name="autoIndexTemplatePath" type="string">resources/templates/www/auto_index.phtml</param>
    </params>
</server>
```

It is also possible to customize the layout by set the parameter `autoIndexTemplatePath` to a different template, that will be used to render the generated page.

Read a more detailed description about the AutoIndex Module configuration in our [documentation](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/1.1/webserver.html#auto-index" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>).

### Headers Modul

The Headers Modul allows to override of, or append headers to, the response. This can, as configuration for most of the other modules, be done on server, virtual host or location level. To change the response header with the server signature, simply add the following lines to the server configuration

```xml
...
<headers>
    <header type="response" name="Server" value="My Own Server" override="true"/>
</headers>
...
```

Read a more detailed description about the Headers Module configuration in our [documentation](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/1.1/webserver.html#headers" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>).

## Application Server

Finally we release some important enhancements for the application server itself, which have a major impact on how applications can be build what configuration options are available now.  

### Application Configuration

A frequently requested and helpful new option is the possibility to deliver nearly all parameters of the server or virtual host configuration with the application itself. This means that, up with version 1.1.0, applications can define their own servers and virtual hosts as well as they can override existing ones. This feature is enabled by default, but can be deactivated by a simple flag in the main server configuration, e. g. for a production environment.

The new configuration options has to be delivered as XML files and are, as the main application configuration `context.xml`, located in the application's `META-INF` directory.

To deliver a simple virtual host configuration with the application, the file `containers.xml` in the applications `META-INF` directory needs the following content  

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<containers xmlns="http://www.appserver.io/appserver">
    <container name="combined-appserver">
        <servers>
            <server name="http">
                <virtualHosts>
                    <virtualHost name="example.dev www.example.dev">
                        <params>
                            <param name="admin" type="string">info@appserver.io</param>
                            <param name="documentRoot" type="string">webapps/example</param>
                        </params>
                    </virtualHost>
                </virtualHosts>
            </server>
        </servers>
    </container>
</containers>
```

As a virtual host is always bound to server, it is necessary to specify the container and the server name by the apropriate attributes.

You can find more informations about Application Configuration in our [documentation](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/1.1/configuration.html#application-configuration" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>). 

### Doctrine Integration (@PersistenceUnit annotation)

Version 1.1.0 introduces a [seamless Doctrine integration](https://github.com/appserver-io/appserver/issues/819). The integration consists of three parts. The first part are the `Datasources` which describes the connection to a database for example. The second part are the `Persistence Units` that describes the `Entity Manager` and which `Datasource` to use. The third part are the Annotations used to inject the `Entity Manager` instance into the application's components.

As `Datasources` have already been available since version 1.0.0, there was no clear concept when an how to use it. In our example application we demonstrated one possible way to use a `Datasource` to instanciate a Doctrine `Enitity Manager` instance. Since version 1.1.0, `Persistence Units` can be configured, to reference datasources. This allows  appserver.io to declare a `Persistence Unit` in a XML file `META-INF/persistence.xml` which can be used by DI via the `@PersistencUnit` annotation, to let the container inject a `Entity Manager` instance, which has been described by the `Persistence Unit`, into the applications components.

A short example would give a brief introduction how things will work together. First we define a `Datasource` describing a connection to a SQLite database, located in a file `META-INF/test-ds.xml` with the following lines

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<datasources xmlns="http://www.appserver.io/appserver">
    <datasource name="appserver.io-example">
        <database>
            <driver>pdo_sqlite</driver>
            <user>appserver</user>
            <password>appserver</password>
            <path>META-INF/data/appserver_ApplicationServer.sqlite</path>
            <memory>false</memory>
        </database>
    </datasource>
</datasources>
```

The next step is to define the `Persistence Unit`. The file also has to be located under the application's `META-INF` directory and **MUST** have the name `persistence.xml`. This file could have the following content

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<persistence xmlns="http://www.appserver.io/appserver">
    <persistenceUnits>
        <persistenceUnit name="ExampleEntityManager"
            interface="Doctrine\ORM\EntityManagerInterface"
            type="Doctrine\ORM\EntityManager"
            factory="AppserverIo\Appserver\PersistenceContainer\Doctrine\EntityManagerFactory">
            <metadataConfiguration type="annotation">
                <directories>
                    <directory>/common/classes/AppserverIo/Entities</directory>
                </directories>
                <params>
                    <param name="isDevMode" type="boolean">true</param>
                    <param name="useSimpleAnnotationReader" type="boolean">false</param>
                    <param name="proxyDir" type="string">false</param>
                </params>
            </metadataConfiguration>
            <datasource name="appserver.io-example"/>
        </persistenceUnit>
    </persistenceUnits>
</persistence>
```

The `Persistence Unit` references the `Datasource` with the value of the attribute `name` of the `<datasource/>` node. These are the necessary step to make a `Entity Manager` instance available in an application. To use the instance, e. g. in a `Stateless Session Bean`, a simple annotation is quite enough

```php
<?php
/**
 * @Stateless
 */
class MyStatelessSessionBean
{

    /**
     * The Doctrine EntityManager instance.
     *
     * @var \Doctrine\ORM\EntityManagerInterface
     * @PersistenceUnit(unitName="ExampleEntityManager")
     */
    protected $entityManager;

    /**
     * Returns an array with all existing entities.
     *
     * @return array An array with all existing entities
     */
    public function findAll()
    {
        // load all entities
        $repository = $this->entityManager->getRepository('AppserverIo\Entities\Sample');
        return $repository->findAll();
    }    
}
```

That's all! More information is available in our [documentation](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/1.1/persistence-container.html#persistence-manager" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>). 

### Lifecycle Callbacks for SFSB (@PostDetach, @PreAttach)

Finally we've added two new [Lifecycle Callbacks](https://github.com/appserver-io/appserver/issues/809) that enables a developer to execute code, before a `Stateful Session Bean` will be re-attached to the `Persistence Manager` or after it'll be loaded from.

The `Lifecycle Callbacks` can be annotated by the `@PostDetach` and the `@PreAttach` annotations, each on one of the a `SFSBs` methods. These methods are useful, if a developer want to use not serializable resources in a `SFSB`, e. g. a database connection.

The following example show's how `Lifecycle Callbacks` can be annotated

```php
<?php
/**
 * @Stateful
 */
class MyStatefulSessionBean
{

    /**
     * @PreAttach
     */
    public function foo()
    {
        // e. g. close a database connection here
    }
    
    /**
     * @PostDetach
     */
    public function bar()
    {
        // e. g. re-connect to the database here
    }
}
```

Read more about the available `Lifecycle Callbacks` and how they can be used in our [documentation](<{{ "/get-started/documentation/1.1/persistence-container.html#lifecycle-callbacks" | prepend: site.baseurl }}>).

## Conclusion

"Iron Knight" provides easy to use solutions for some of the most discussed problems of version 1.0.x. As meanwhile there are production systems out there, we're and will be focused on giving developers the tools, they need to build high performance und rock solid web apps.

As this blog post only gives a short introduction of the new features and documentation is sometimes hard to read, we've extended our example application with all that functionality. So if you're looking for best practices or how to's, have a look at the [example application](https://github.com/appserver-io-apps/example) that is, as well delivered with version 1.1.0.

If you have any additional questions, feel free to contact us on our well frequented [Gitter](https://gitter.im/appserver-io/appserver) chat. You're always welcome! 